Add `GBC 2022 Spring` tournament article (#7096)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/GBC/GBC_2022_Spring/en.md

2. Teams must play 2 matches on week 2 of the playoffs.

#### Win conditions

- In all stages, teams need to win 6 maps to win a match (best of 11).

### Match instructions

1. A referee will create a multiplayer room 15 minutes in advance. Players must gather during this period.
   - Room settings are osu!mania, Team VS, Win Condition: Score v2. Room name must be `GBC2022Spring: ({TeamRed}) vs ({TeamBlue})`.
   - The team mentioned first in the room name must be the red team, and the team mentioned second in the room name must be the blue team.
2. Each captain can ban **one beatmap** from the pool. These beatmaps cannot be picked by any team during the entire match.
3. Beatmap selection will alternate between each captain selecting a beatmap out of the mappool.
4. Each captain must use `!roll` once in `#multiplayer`.
   - The winner of the `!roll` starts picking the first beatmap of the match.
   - The loser of the `!roll` starts banning one beatmap, followed by the winner of the `!roll` to ban a beatmap. 

> 5. After each pick, the captain may ban one player of the opposite player from playing that beatmap in the match, except in a tiebreaker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After each pick, the captain may ban one player of the opposing team from playing that beatmap in the match, except in a tiebreaker.
```

     - For a ready timer, the referee will issue the `!mp start 10` command, regardless of how many players from each team are present in the lobby, using `!mp kick` on any extra players for each team, starting from the top (i.e. the first valid player combination for each team will be forced to play the pick). The results for such games are to be taken as is.
   - Repeat offenders may receive further sanctions from the host.
   - Each team will receive **one** "tactical timeout" of **two minutes**, to be used as extra time to pick or ban a beatmap. *The tactical timeout is optional.*
7. The referee reserves the right to modify these rules or decide if a team has violated these rules in matches they are responsible for, if absolutely necessary.

### Mappool instructions

1. There will be one mappool for each stage.
   - The whole Regular stage will be seen as a single stage, meaning the same mappool will be used in all matches in the Regular stage.
2. Each mappool consists of a fixed amount of maps each stage which will all be played under FreeMod conditions. This means that there is a unique FreeMod bracket.

> 3. All mappool contains 13 beatmaps.

Reviewer: woops

```suggestion
3. All mappools contain 13 beatmaps.
```

Author: hah i'm wondering it's some special usage i don't know.

Reviewer: "mappool" was supposed to be plural ("all mappools")

"contain" would only be "contains" if whatever before it was in singular

---
tags:
  - GBC
  - GBC 2022
  - GBC2022
  - GBC 2022 Spring
---

# GB Cup 2022 Spring

The **GB Cup 2022 Spring** (***GBC 4K 2021***) was a 3v3 captain draft-based osu!mania 4-key tournament hosted by ![][flag_CN] [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407).

## Tournament schedule

|                Event | Timestamp                           |
| -------------------: | :---------------------------------- |
|   Registration phase | 2022-03-26/2022-04-02 (23:59 UTC+8) |
|          Draft phase | 2022-04-03 (21:00 UTC+8)            |
| Regular Stage Week 1 | 2022-04-09/2022-04-10               |
| Regular Stage Week 2 | 2022-04-16/2022-04-17               |
| Regular Stage Week 3 | 2022-04-23/2022-04-24               |
|      Playoffs Week 1 | 2022-04-30/2022-05-01               |
|      Playoffs Week 2 | 2022-05-07/2022-05-08               |

## Prizes

| Placing | Prizes |
| :-----: | :----- |

> | ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-gold.png "1st place") | profile badge, KanonBot profile badge, 50 CNY ¥ per team member |

Author: From TicClick:   
> additionally, do you really need to use the yuan symbol here (and in other places), since CNY already includes the word yuan?

Response:  
in fact, I don't know the concurrency rules on this wiki, on liquipedia it will use ¥ CNY, since "¥" will also be used for JPN yuan.

Reviewer: isn't the ¥ symbol put before the value? i.e. ¥50 CNY, or at least that's the formatting i usually see when both the symbol and the code are used

- Livestream
- Challonge bracket
- Master sheet
- Statistics sheet

## Ruleset

### Tournament rules

1. The GB Cup 2022 Spring is a captain draft-based team tournament, played on the osu!mania game mode.
   - **While this competition is planned as a 3 versus 3 setup, this might change depending on the number of incoming registrations.**
2. Beatmap scoring will be based on Score V2.
3. The beatmaps for each round will be announced by the Mappool Selector Team on the Sunday before the actual matches take place.
   - Each mappool will contain a *tiebreaker* beatmap. It will only be played in case of a tie in the scoreline in the *best of* system, e.g. if the scoreline is 4-4 and the match is best of 9, the tiebreaker shall be played.
4. Match schedule will be handled by the Host.
5. If no referees are available at match time, the match will be postponed.
6. Failed players' scores do not get added to the team score.
   - Reviving and surviving during a beatmap is considered as passing it.
7. Use of the Visual Settings to alter background dim or disable beatmap elements like storyboards and skins is allowed.
   - Custom skin elements must not be used to alter core gameplay mechanics.

> 8. If a game ends in a draw it will be nullified and the beatmap replayed, herein called a *rematch*.

Reviewer: there's no need to define what a "rematch" is (it's a common word). MWC is irrelevant, and many tournament articles need further proofreading anyway

20. Penalties for violating the tournament rules include, but are not limited to:
    - Exclusion of specific players for one beatmap.
    - Exclusion of specific players for an entire match.
    - Declaring the match as forfeited, or as a win by default for the other team.
    - Disqualification from the entire tournament.
    - Disqualification from the current and future GBC series.
    - Disqualification from the current and future official & commnunity tournaments, until appealed.
21. The Host reserves the right to modify these rules at any moment. Any such canges will be announced in advance.

### Tournament registration

1. Please send the Host **a private message** and **fill [this form](https://wj.qq.com/s2/9902248/95cf/)** to register. 
2. Each player could send a VOD clips or an in-game replays to Host, which will be used on Draft phase. 
3. To ensure valid and serious registrations, every registered user will be manually checked by the Host.
   - To be successfully registered, a player must not have violated the [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules) within the last 12 months.

>    - **No rank limitations for this tournament.** host have the right to choose several best players to participate in showmatch (showcase by a match) **instead of** the actual tournament for balance issues.

Author: Orgional Sentence:
>    - **No rank limitations for this tournament.** but host have the rights to choose several **best** players may invited to **pricipate showmatch instead of actual tournament** for balance issues.

From TicClick:

> I don't understand this sentence, what were you trying to explain?

Response: 
no lowest/highest rank limitation for players. if amounts of registered players are higher than tournament limits, some top players (not fully equal to have highest PP or world ranking) will be removed from the player list.
but this tournament has show matches between each stage, these players removed by above reason will be invited into such show match.

Author: if you agree with the host's explain, i will fixed this sentence by using later one suggestion.

Reviewer: seems ok, but put a hyphen in "high-level registrants" (i've edited the suggestion)

4. A list of all successfully registered players will be published after the Registration Phase.
   - All valid registered players will have the chance to pricipate Draft phase.
5. Organizers, Mappool Selectors and referees must not participate as a player in the tournament.
6. Organizers keeps right to decline any suspend account pricipate this tournament.

> ### Draft phase instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Drafting phase instructions
```

1. Host will declare one captain for each team on 24 hours before Draft phase.

>    - drafting order will also be declared by Host.
>    - Captains are selected by player's performance and preference.
>    - Other valid players not belongs to captains , will automaticly joined into a group, wating to join a team, herein called *player pool*.

Author: to make rules clearly, i think giving `player pool` an definition may better, is this acceptable?
```suggestion
   - Drafting order will also be declared by the host.
   - Captains are selected by performance and preference.
   - Non-captains will join a group, wating to join a team, herein called "player pool".
```

>    - drafting order will also be declared by Host.
>    - Captains are selected by player's performance and preference.
>    - Other valid players not belongs to captains , will automaticly joined into a group, wating to join a team, herein called *player pool*.

Reviewer: almost

```suggestion
   - Drafting order will also be declared by the host.
   - Captains are selected by performance and preference.
   - Non-captains will join a group of players waiting to join a team, herein called a "player pool".
```

2. Captains can decided their team members on draft phase.
   - Captains are allowed to conduct and coordinate "tryouts", tests to gauge player aptitude, on their own terms. 

>    - On draft phase, Captains will also allowed to see a VOD clips or an in-game replays provided by potential players, if possible.

Author: this rule is removed after discussion with the host (@yobrevelc)

3. An initial 120-second planning phase begins, during which allowed first captain to thinking which player should be picked first.
4. The picking phase begins afterward. The pick order consists of 2 phases that repeat twice, and every captains gets to pick 4 times.
   - 1st , 3rd phase: 1st to 16th captain, increasing order.

>    - 2nd , 4th phase: 16th to 1st captain, decreasing order.

Author: this rule is changed, but format fixing will be done first.

5. Each Captains has 60 seconds to pick an player from the player pool on their turn. 
   - The picked player will join into the captain's team, then removed from the player pool.
   - If the captain does not pick an player within 60 seconds, a random player from the remaining player pool will be assigned.

>    - The captain are only allowed to pick one player on their turn.

Author: i think it might not bad to keep the third sub rules, may add "only" better ? (`- The captain are only allowed to pick only one player on their turn.`)

>    - The captain are only allowed to pick one player on their turn.

Reviewer: can instead emphasise the "one" in the rule itself (`Each captain has 60 seconds to pick **one player** from the player pool on their turn. `), which already makes the third subrule redundant

and the first subrule is redundant since there's no way to interpret rule 5 in any other way

>    - The captain are only allowed to pick one player on their turn.

Author: reasonable.

10. Being negetivate on Drafting phase will be seen as Disrupting the match by foul play.

### Regular Stage instructions

1. Following the Draft phase, a 3 rounds Swiss stage will be played. This means teams with same record will be faced to each other.
2. Following rules are using for deterimined final ranking in order:
   - Higher matches win
   - Head to head result (if possible)
   - Higher Buchholz Score
   - Higher beatmaps win
   - Lower beatmaps lose
   - roll dices. 
3. Top 8 teams will advanced to Playoff Stage, the remains get eliminated from the tournament.
   - that means teams with 2-X or better record will be advanced to next stage.
   - All teams will finished 3 rounds, even they have 0-2 records.
4. In the Regular Stage, all team will play in same mappools.
5. The Regular Stage will also be done to seed teams. Teams will be ordered based on their ranking result.

### Playoff Stage instructions

1. Following the Regular stage, a Single Elimination stage will be played. This means that the winner continues in their runs, and the losing team gets  get eliminated from the tournament, except for brozen match.

> 2. Teams in the losers bracket must play 2 matches on Play-offs Week 2.

Author: oh i forgot to delete `losers' bracket`, will fixed later

#### Win conditions

- In all stage, Team need to win 6 maps to win a match. (best of 11).

### Match instructions

1. A referee will create a multiplayer room 15 minutes in advance. Players must gather during this period.

>    - Room settings are osu!mania, Team-Vs., Win Condition: 'ScoreV2'. Room name must be "GBC2022Spring: (TeamRed) vs (TeamBlue)".

Author: reference from MWC rules.

3. Beatmap selection will alternate between each captain selecting a beatmap out of the mappool.
4. Each captain must use `!roll` once in `#multiplayer`.
   - The winner of the `!roll` starts picking the first beatmap of the match.
   - The loser of the `!roll` starts banning one beatmap, followed by the winner of the `!roll` to ban a beatmap. 
5. After each beatmap selected, captain could decide exclusion one specific opposite player for selected beatmap in this match, except tie-breaker.
   - Each player will only be exclusion only **once** per match.
   - captain have rights not to exclusion any player in this beatmap.
6. Teams will have 2 minutes to ban or pick a beatmap , 2 minutes to exclusion opposite player ,and 3 minutes to get ready. If a team takes more time than alloted, the procedures adopted will be as follows:
   - For the first occurrence:
     - The team will receive a verbal warning from the referee
   - On subsequent occurrences:
     - For exclusion player timer: See as captain forfeit to exclusion player.
     - For a map ban timer:  See as captain forfeit to ban a beatmap.

>      - For a map pick timer: a random map will be chosen from the mappool using `!roll X`, where X is the number of maps that were neither picked nor banned, excluding the Tiebreaker.

Author: reference from MWC rules.

>      - For a ready timer: the referee will issue the `!mp start 10` command, regardless of how many players from each team are present in the lobby, using `!mp kick` on any extra players for each team, starting from the top (i.e. the first valid player combination for each team will be forced to play the pick). The results for such games are to be taken as is.

Author: reference from MWC rules.

>    - Repeat offenders may receive further sanctions from the Host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Repeat offenders may receive further sanctions from the host.
```

>    - Each team will receive **one** "tactical timeout" of **two minutes**, to be used as extra time to pick or ban a beatmap. *The tactical timeout is optional, and is not required to be used*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Each team will receive **one** "tactical timeout" of **two minutes**, to be used as extra time to pick or ban a beatmap. *The tactical timeout is optional.*
```

Author: reference from MWC rules.

> 7. Referee reserves the right to modify these rules or decided which team violation rules for mataches they responsible for. This can only happen if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The referee reserves the right to modify these rules or decide if a team has violated these rules in matches they are responsible for, if absolutely necessary.
```

### Mappool instructions

1. There will be one mappool for each stage.

>    - The whole Regular stage will be seen as same stage, that means a  mappools will be used in all match in Regular stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The whole Regular stage will be seen as a single stage, meaning the same mappool will be used in all matches in the Regular stage.
```

> 2. Each mappool consists of a fixed amount of maps each stage which will all be played under FreeMod conditions. This means that there is a unique FreeMod bracket.

Reviewer: unless this means that every mappool has the same freemod bracket, this point is also very redundant and doesn't serve much purpose

```suggestion
2. The FreeMod bracket will be played under FreeMod conditions.
```

Author: yes, it's a rule reference from MWC rules. I'm wondering why and think maybe it used for differ from other game mode?
so it will kept as it was.

Reviewer: can keep for now

> 3. All mappools contains 13 beatmaps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. All mappool contains 13 beatmaps.
```

> 4. Each mappool has one tiebreake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Each mappool has one tiebreaker.
```

> 5. Possible mod choices for all maps are Hidden, FadeIn, Flashlight, Mirror.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Possible mod choices for all maps are Hidden, FadeIn, Flashlight, and Mirror.
```

6. The tiebreaker will be played under FreeMod conditions.

### Scheduling instructions

1. Each stage will be held on **a single weekend**.

> 2. All matches will be held on either a Saturday or Sunday, UTC+8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. All matches will be held on either a Saturday or Sunday (UTC+8).
```

> 3. Scheduling will be handled by the Host. Schedules will be released on the Sunday before the first matches of the actual stage. Host will try to create the schedule to respect the participant's perferance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Scheduling will be handled by the host, and will be released on the Sunday before the first match of the stage. The host will try to create a schedule that respects all participants' preferences.
```

>    - Please inform the Host before Sunday, if you expect a specific time slot to be unavailable in the following week. The Host will try to accommodate all wishes, but makes no promises.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Please inform the host before Sunday if you expect a specific time slot to be unavailable in the following week. The host will try to accommodate all wishes, but makes no promises.
```

> 4. **Reschedules will only be considered if both teams agree to a time, this needs to be done and notified to the tournament staff before Wednesday, 23:59 UTC of that particular week when your match takes place.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Reschedules will only be considered if both teams agree to a time. This needs to be done and notified to the tournament staff before Wednesday (23:59 UTC) of that particular week when your match takes place.**
```

5. **Reschedules may only be requested by a team captain.**

>    - **Do not ask for rescheduling unless it is absolutely needed. The Host reserves the right to decline any rescheduling requests.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Do not ask for reschedule unless it is absolutely needed. The host reserves the right to decline any reschedule requests.**
```

> 6. Captains are responsible for their teams' availability. The current team size exists to ensure every team can provide at least three players for each match. If teams can not provide three players for a match, the match will be considered forfeited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Captains are responsible for their teams' availability. The current team size exists to ensure every team can provide at least three players for each match. If teams cannot provide three players for a match, the match will be considered forfeited.
```
